GO FIND A makeup mirror. There's a good chance you have one in the bathroom. You know the type—it has surface that shows you a zoomed-in image of your face. If you have one nearby, you can use this for your physics homework to show the difference between a real and virtual image.
Here is the starting demo. Move your head so that you can see at least one eye in the mirror. If you are at a normal viewing position, you will probably see your eyes appearing a little bit bigger than they are in real life (this is a virtual image). Now slowly move away from the mirror but try to keep your eye in view. At some point, the image will become completely blurry—but then it will be in focus again but upside down (this is a real image).
Just in case you don't have a makeup mirror, this is what you should see.

OK, that's cool. But what is the difference between a real and virtual image? Let me start with the most basic virtual image that you have seen—and image in a plain (and flat) mirror. Imagine an object in front of this mirror. I can represent the way the light interacts with both the mirror and a human eye with a light-ray diagram. This diagram shows the path light takes as it reflects off the object.

Let me go over all the details in this diagram. I will start with the green arrow—which represents some random object. Of course the first part is that there must be a light source somewhere. This light hits the object and then reflects off in all directions. I have drawn two arrows to represent just some of the reflected light (light rays). Both of these light rays travel towards the mirror and reflect off of it. They reflect in such a way that the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence.
Notice that after the two rays reflect off the mirror, they never cross. You can draw as many light rays as you like, but they aren't going to cross after reflecting from the mirror. However—our human eyes are sort of dumb. They can't really tell where the light actually came from. Instead, our eyes (and our brain) just trace the light back to where it appears to be from. This is where the two dashed lines come in. These are projections of the light rays to back behind the mirror where it appears both rays could come from.
